# A_high_speed-addition-method-and-logic-for-4-bit-addition
A 4-bit ripple-carry adder :   A ripple carry adder is simple, which allows for fast design time. However, the ripple-carry adder is relatively slow, since each full adder must wait for the carry-bit to be calculated from the previous full adder. Delays in a circuit may be caused due to a variety of reasons. The primary shortcoming of a ripple carry adder is the fact that at every bit must wait for the result of the previous carry. This is a significant impediment for circuit speed. Each bit waits for the carry generated at the previous bit, in order to calculate the next sum. This causes delays in the circuit. In contrast, the carry look-ahead adder block, calculates the next carry bit with the sum. Due to this, the current bit already has the value of the carry, required to calculate the sum. This significantly improves speed, and reduces delays in the circuit.       A 4-bit carry look ahead adder :  Carry look ahead is a digital circuit used for determining the carry bits used by the adder for addition without the wait for the carry propagation. It generates the carry bits for all the stages of the addition at the same time as soon as the input signal (Augend, addend, carry in) is provided. The most critical component of this adder is the carry look ahead block. It performs the task of simultaneously calculating the carry, so that there need not be any delay in receiving carry from the previous bit. This enables faster computation and the inherent quality of reversible logic-based circuits make it a lucrative option for circuit designers.
# HighSpeed-CarryLookAhead-Adder
